[Unordererd & OrderedList] Design guidelines (#309)
primer/brand: apps/docs/content/components/UnorderedList/index.mdx

---
title: Unordered list

> description: Use the unordered list component to render a list of unordered items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Use the unordered list component to present a collection of items without specific ordering.
```

---

import ComponentLayout from '../../../src/layouts/component-layout'
export default ComponentLayout

## Anatomy

![An image showing an unordered list with different bullet points.](https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/646a4719-dddf-47f5-9b34-85f6addb828e)

## Usage

> Use an unordered list to group related items together. It is suitable for presenting a collection of items that do not require a specific order or ranking. The unordered list provides visual bullet points for each item, which helps to emphasize the individuality of each point and makes it easier for users to scan and comprehend the information.

Reviewer: > visual bullet points

Change to dashes? We don't use bullets so this could be misleading.

> Use the unordered list to effectively provide a quick reference or highlight key points. This allows users to easily grasp the main ideas or features without having to read lengthy paragraphs.

Reviewer: This line feels more relevant to the next example. Could this be moved and replaced with guidance mentioning not to use it for content that requires linear grouping?

<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/3893c4f5-2ae8-4ca8-a23f-f76dd02de752"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>
      Use an unordered list to present and group a list of items that don't
      require a specific order.
    </Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img
      src="https://github.com/primer/brand/assets/912236/8c2399a3-3b1b-4b7a-b917-f14499eefd9d"
      alt=""
    />
    <Caption>
      Don't use an unordered list to present a sequence of steps. Use an ordered
      list instead.
    </Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>

Use the unordered list to effectively provide a quick reference or highlight key points. This allows users to easily grasp the main ideas or features without having to read lengthy paragraphs. For lists that require a linear order, consider using an [ordered list](/components/OrderedList) instead.

> The unordered list should have conscise and short items. Avoid using long sentences or paragraphs as they can be difficult to scan and comprehend. If you need to include a long item or even headings and links, consider using a [pillar](/components/Pillar), a [card](/components/Card) or a [river](/components/River) instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The unordered list should have concise and short items. Avoid using long sentences or paragraphs as they can be difficult to scan and comprehend. If you need to include a long item or even headings and links, consider using a [pillar](/components/Pillar), a [card](/components/Card) or a [river](/components/River) instead.
```
